feat: add link previews to MessageInput (#2083)
GetStream/stream-chat-react: docusaurus/docs/React/guides/customization/link-preview.mdx

---
id: link_preview
sidebar_position: 21
title: Link Previews in Message Input
---

import LinkPreviewMessageInput from '../../assets/link-preview-message-input.png'
import LinkPreviewEditMessageForm from '../../assets/link-preview-edit-message-form.png'

> The purpose of link previews in message input is to provide visual guides of what a user may expect to be rendered later in message list by [`Card` component](../../../components/message-components/attachment#card) among message attachments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of link previews in `MessageInput` is to provide visual guides of what a user may expect to be rendered later in the `MessageList` by [`Card` component](../../../components/message-components/attachment#card) among message attachments.
```

}

const urlEnrichmentConfig = {
  urlEnrichmentConfig: { onLinkPreviewDismissed }
};

const App = () => (
  <Channel  enrichURLForPreview >
    <MessageList additionalMessageInputProps={ urlEnrichmentConfig} } />
    <MessageInput {...urlEnrichmentConfig } />
    <Thread additionalMessageInputProps={ urlEnrichmentConfig } />
  </Channel>
)
```

#### Custom text parsing function

If the default link parsing functionality is not sufficient, this can be overridden by providing `findURLFn` custom function. The requirement is that the function return an array of strings - links - that will be later used to scrape the data.

```typescript jsx
import {
    Channel,
    MessageInput,
    Thread,
    VirtualizedMessageList as MessageList,
} from 'stream-chat-react';

import { searchForURLs } from '../utils';

const urlEnrichmentConfig = {
    urlEnrichmentConfig: { findURLFn: searchForURLs }
};

const App = () => (
  <Channel  enrichURLForPreview >
    <MessageList additionalMessageInputProps={ urlEnrichmentConfig } />
    <MessageInput {...urlEnrichmentConfig} />
    <Thread additionalMessageInputProps={ urlEnrichmentConfig }/>
  </Channel>
)
```

#### Custom debounce interval

> The default debounce interval is 1.5 seconds. This can be prolonged or shorten by passing `debounceURLEnrichmentMs` configuration parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default debounce interval is 1.5 seconds. This interval can be increased or decreased by passing `debounceURLEnrichmentMs` configuration parameter:
```
